and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where
I'm showing actionable B2B marketing and
website tips useful podcasts free
goodies and more to kick off your week
with a bang why not give a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email
so joining me today we've got a special
episode I'm joined by not one but two
guests we've got Jack frimson and Zach
Thompson
of we have a meeting welcome to the show
Lads how are we oh thank you thank you
no dramas at all looking forward to it a
very very special episode with some
special guests we're talking about why
sales is like a therapy session
so uh some might be looking at the title
and thinking what the heck is is this
gonna entail
um which I was as well but with that
said let's drive straight in
sales and therapy like what's the link
chaps I mean it all sounds a bit odd to
me what's what's the uh what's the
connection
well I don't want to put you on the spot
some but if any of your listeners have
ever been to therapy before often you go
to therapy knowing you probably have a
problem or the
maybe the symptoms of a problem that
you're wanting to diagnose and through
conversation and being communicated with
properly you end up reaching an outcome
of
probably here's the the actual root of
the problem I'm facing here's my
motivation to change or to stay as I am
and here's the actionable next steps
to move away from the problem or maybe
if you're trying to improve yourself
move towards pleasure so we find that
our sales conversations
demos that we do for our clients
Discovery calls all seem to work best
when they take on that kind of Mantra
and follow the therapy session steps
I've done a few done anything on that
joke
yeah 100 I Echo what you say and I also
think like sometimes that the brain can
be an absolute Jungle of mess and until
you've actually said something out loud
sometimes that's clarifying it so when
you say it's like ah okay that's why or
that's what I need to do or that's the
problem and that's the root cause
whereas our goal with with all sales
should never be the case we are not
trying to sell to every single Prospect
every single Discovery call every person
that we call call we are not trying to
do that if you were trying to do that
you might be a gazillionaire but also
you can't because people aren't as open
and responsive
um so you probably want to speak to the
people that need help but that's where
challenging comes in but also when
people start to open up and maybe have
to defend what what they uh what they
want that's when they start to realize
how much they want it and I think that's
where there's probably a different paths
that you can go down but I think a a lot
of the calls that we that we do and one
of that's called you'll probably tell it
better than I do but when you were
speaking to that bloke on a cold call
and he started talking about his wife
and his kids do you want to jump in
there Zack
yeah so the like like most people I
think what we expect ourselves because
you're going to pick up the phone and
someone's wearing a big sign that says
please qualify me right so you start
doing the steps and all of a sudden you
say yeah come on sit down and we can
really what happened with this bloke
said you know what I've been looking
into this for a little while now I've
just not pulled the trigger yet
so rather than do the obvious thing that
I probably would have done 10 years ago
when I started out in sales and tell
them all the reasons that you should we
went more down a path of why you
shouldn't what you liked about the way
things were at the minute
and then he just started to gradually
start telling me some quite personal
stuff that his marriage had recently
broken down he was seeing a new girl he
was having his kids on the weekend and
he was realizing that he actually didn't
have time to focus on those things focus
on a new relationship focus on these
kids when they were around he was always
thinking about work and he said you know
if I've got this right then maybe that
would give me more time and then that's
really what we were selling on we
weren't selling on here's a clever bit
of tech that will solve a problem for
you it was more his what your desired
future state would look like more time
with your new girlfriend than more time
with your kids yeah yeah it'd be great
to kind of break that down in a bit as
well so we can give something actionable
maybe we can do a little bit of a role
play or scenario in a bit to uh to
um yeah to share kind of what that looks
like in a real convo but that's
so it sounds like that's that that
chapter you're speaking to like you
actually um
well that's that's quite rare at least
in my experience for someone to go that
personal I don't know if that's that's
something you guys see often but where
someone will literally kind of talk
about their personal life on quite a
deep level and then get to the in your
case the problem which was that he
didn't have enough time with his family
and that's what potentially looking at
this solution could free up his time as
we could is that something
I would say we we see it on it's not
every call because obviously you can't
get people to open up that but it's not
that much on a on a on a regular basis
because it's just if you if you delve in
then actually like most most sales reps
will hear the problem and that is I'm
going in now I'm going to book a meeting
I'm gonna get 15 minutes in the diary
and then we can do it and then we can go
through everything especially when
you're on a cold call when you've got
somebody what is the impact of that
problem I really need to know what is
actually what have you tried to fix it
what happens if you don't fix it all of
these different things we've worked out
recently as well like from kind of
analyzing our our sales schools and and
things like that that you actually it's
around about 10 Deep diving questions
that you need to ask to get somebody to
open up before you should even like talk
about like sitting down and exploring it
further which I think is like a good
actionable takeaway but one of the guys
came to me today said I'm doing six and
I feel like I could I need a few but I'm
losing I'm not really sure where to go
and it's like okay break that down
there's there's three big topics there
problem impact and solution let's add
another one into all of those buckets
and then that's nine and we're nearly
there okay but I don't know if I could
think of any like broad questions that
will be applicable okay well let's add a
mirror in let's make sure that you ask
those two questions and then you add a
mirror in at the end of that and then
you go bloody hell that's nine deep
diving questions well I ask one more
that's ten usually at that point people
are invested enough the conversation's
gone on for 10 15 minutes and you're
laughing yeah that's something I want to
get into because there's there's a
balance right when you're
prospecting
initially trying to get a meeting if
they're a good fit with a potential
client or if you're doing a kind of
Discovery call or perhaps running a demo
whatever it might be chances are you've
got to ask some questions to understand
a bit more about this potential
prospects world if they've got problems
or not
um so I do want to get into in a minute
how we kind of separate that from being
an interrogation so the prospect doesn't
see it as 50 questions or 10 questions
like you mentioned there which you said
work quite well to you to actually
something that goes like a free-flowing
conversation but before we do
does someone need to have a problem
in order for us to be able to make a
sale
um
in well this is interesting so in our
world with our style of selling yes
there are
more transactional things that might be
getting on suppliers lists is is an
example then sometimes when you speak to
someone about like like a big
construction company or something I want
to supply you more bricks you probably
go around the path of what don't you
like about your current suppliers and in
a market like construction it's probably
things around I can get it a bit cheaper
or you can be there slightly more on
time but it's not like a big problem
like a tech solution might fix right um
so the problem doesn't always have to be
glaring in our approach which is we like
to try and book clients things on the
first few days we find that any
can I get you on a preferred suppliers
list type sales cycle I'm just thinking
that as an example sure we're probably
not the best bet for you and there might
be other ways of doing it not that we'll
turn it down if someone wants to pay us
lots of money to do it
um but with what our approach is and the
way we go through the process because it
is so problem-centric for us they do
need to have a problem and that's part
of the discovery process we're going
with our clients making sure not only do
they solve a really tangible problem but
do their buyers really feel it and how
does it kind of manifest in day to day
if if it doesn't then there might be
another style of selling out that's
better suited for them and why problems
as opposed to let's say advantages or
features or benefits why are we going
for something that's causing an issue
causing frustration causing pain as
opposed to I don't know the grant card
owner approach 10x it make your life
better improve this get better at that
yeah
so I mean I won't say anything about
Graham I'm sure he's an avid listener
and he's probably watching now but
really it comes down to human psychology
so how how decision making happens so it
works in in kind of kind of Threes so
there needs to be deep thought and
really we only think deeply about things
which we think are impactful so problems
are a great
place to start problems moving moving
away from problems or towards pleasure
is often a good place to start so that's
kind of the top of the tower so when I
think deeply about that I then attach a
feeling to it
only when I've attached a feeling to it
and an emotion to it that I then put
action behind it
so really what we find is the problem
if you're feeling it enough should have
some emotion and the emotions should
link with the motivation to actually act
and do something
we can all have a nice intellectual
conversation around a product or service
but really it's only when you actually
feel it recognize it in your world have
a problem that's tangible you actually
move towards any sort of action
um
and does that mean the bigger the
problem the bigger the potential deal
size
I would say on my experience it's
actually down to how long someone's had
the problem for will often unlock how
motivated they are okay so if I was to
give you an example in my own life I've
got a hole in my shed roof my kids bikes
and things get wet but I've still not
fixed it and I probably think of every
excuse to not fix it on the weekend yeah
in a business setting there will be lots
of problems and as Jack was alluding to
before sales people often hear a problem
yeah I recognize that problem great and
they jump all over it well if you take a
step back and start talking about how
long it's been in place for what's done
to fix it you can quickly on Earth
actually it might be a massive problem
but they're allergic to change they've
got no budget or they don't want to
spend any money yeah and they might have
the problem but zero motivation to
actually fix it
I think people are sorry Sam you go
ahead mate I was gonna say and then reps
rush into that meeting they're already
putting it into Salesforce and I've got
this big up he's got this big problem
and then they're confused as to why the
deal go clock like the deal go cold well
is how how motivated are they to fix
that and that's the thing like it's the
we're a big fans of many different sales
leaders and things like that but the the
Keenan approach is is it a headache and
they can just go out and take a
paracetamol or is it a brain tumor and
actually we need to get them to see a
doctor straight away and that doctor is
for us the client for that that is the
AE or the whoever it may be yeah that's
a nice analogy like that yeah it's like
sometimes we'll get inquiries and people
will say we need a new website and I'll
ask them why they need a new website and
they might say oh our current one's not
very good and I'm like what do you mean
very good and they might say something
like don't like the looking style or the
design and feel I said okay but is there
anything more to it than that like does
the website need to generate inquiries
does it needs to build Brands they need
to build trust like not really sure it's
actually doing okay
um it's actually generating a few leads
and stuff like that it's like are you
sure you really need a new episode
actually
not sure I do it's like perhaps you want
to look at something else like marketing
or ads or stuff like to drive more
traffic to it but
like you say it I I come across the same
thing unless someone's got like a
genuine kind of frustration that is
something that's eating away whether
that's at their business or not freeing
up time or causing them some kind of
distress
um you can quite with certain techniques
which we can go into in a minute you can
quite quickly determine if they're
actually going to be a even a client for
you or even a good fit Prospect worth
chatting further with or something you
should just say look I don't think it's
worth you spending time let's pick up in
six months when uh it might be make more
sense for us to chat and yeah and that
is the salesperson's job because really
in the sense of it's not to sell to as
many people it really A salesperson shop
is to keep a slender pipeline of yeses
okay this is something that's going to
move forward but something ridiculous
has happened at the last minute or knows
like and that and that's it no maybes no
yeah we need a new website okay I'll put
you in the maybe pile we'll have a few
meetings every week but the first
question should be like okay and if it
was a choice of partnering with fifteen
thousand pounds for a new website or
just putting up the feeling of not
liking the color green on your website
what would you rather do
well I'd rather put up the color than
spend that money okay
brilliant disqualified you've worked it
out but actually I think they'd say that
I'm waking up in the middle of the night
every night thinking about this bloody
awful color of green on on the website
then it's just like I'm not alluding to
our new website by the way yeah
I'm just giving an example then it's
like okay there's a problem like that's
that's like a tangible problem of
something we can take and it's um yeah I
think just disqualify qualify or
disqualify that that is the game but
make sure you've done your job properly
when it comes to questioning
I think that's probably one of the from
my experience the things that most sales
reps myself I certainly used to be are
scared to do right especially if you
perhaps aren't getting fed many leads
from marketing or whether you're a
business owner and you're not getting
many inquiries through referrals a word
of mouth or your website or whatever
marketing you do
at that stage it feels hard to say no to
prospects or to say we're not we might
not be the best fit at this stage
yeah you get more I think
I don't know if you've all found this
but since I've become My Own Boss you
are more comfortable with it I think if
you're sat in the office with your boss
and you were to be have a a proper sales
process that's honest
and you know the elephant in the room
when someone's like call me back next
week or let's put some in the diary for
a few weeks time it's I've probably not
done enough and it's probably over or
they're not motivated enough to do
anything
running your own business you're a bit
more honest about that and you can call
that out and say you know listen nine
times out of ten When someone tells me
that what do you think they mean
and they say well no I'm not I'm yeah I
can see what you're saying but I
definitely will you know pick up the
phone or okay and then what happens when
you don't and you can kind of call them
out on the things that you couldn't when
your boss is looking at your uh sales
force is it up to date and what
opportunities have you generated if you
were being honest you could have more of
a yes or no approach and there's
probably a leadership problem in that
sometimes
okay I was going to ask you Jack that's
a nice point so it it's very easy for us
to sit here and say that because we're
you know I mean we run a company so what
is the what and I think you alluded to
it there with the leadership so why
would they not feel comfortable doing it
and how do they actually go into it like
how do they start being a bit more
ruthless
I think everyone
so everyone's got a boss even we've got
a boss haven't we we've got our like
Sam's bosses the clients that he's
working for our bosses the clients that
we're working for
um so if you're working in a company
right now it's often how is your sales
director reporting things into his boss
or her boss
and that's probably it probably goes up
the tower with what the problem is you
know how many opportunities have you
generated this week what is an
opportunity oh an opportunity is a is a
conversation that's into a demo okay but
why did that conversation fit into a
demo because we've just stole 15 minutes
in their diary
I'll show you what I've got to give the
Starbucks car we bought them a plant or
whatever
um so often it's it's
not always the sdras fault I think
um it could be a leadership problem but
a good place to start I think is picking
out what your most common objections are
or reasons not to buy and putting them
at the front of your sales process and
seeing what happens
so when you get on the phone with
someone in that Discovery call
you know we all start so I know some
stocks his calls the same as well it's
what do you want to happen Mr Prospect
end of the call not let me tell you how
great we are okay and if all that
happens at the end of the call then what
would you want to happen well then I'd
want to know about your course
onboarding process whatever it is that
you're selling okay do you mind if I
just share before we jump in maybe two
reasons why someone wouldn't buy from us
when they got to that point that you've
not talked about so far here's what it
costs here's what I'm going to need from
you at the end of it they're two quite
big commitments you still come through
having the conversation
get them out of the way before you even
start and that way at the end of the
call you're probably going to be left
with a more hard yes or no
so once you've got those objections
there then you would do
um
like The Upfront contract you know
something around based on that are we
happy to agree like a yes or no end of a
call but I think
sort of front loading all the reasons
why you shouldn't do will save a lot of
time and probably streamline your
pipeline tenfold
yeah yeah definitely that Sound Advice
um knowing those those common objections
that you've get and like you said if you
perhaps don't know them if you're newer
to your business or not experience in
the industry why not ask the rest of
your team or or management or the owner
whoever you can kind of find out these
juicy problems because like you said if
you can if you can get this out the way
early it's going to save you a lot of
time and Hassle and it's going to save
the prospects a lot of time now so
you're not keeping kind of deals in your
pipeline they're never moving anywhere
and you're forever following up on
um but also to go back to what you said
there qualifying out early
it feels better as well doesn't it as if
you're selling like it means you're not
trying to sell to someone who's not a
great fit you're generally looking for
someone that you can add value to with
your product your service you're
offering and it means that
yes you're a lot of the time what I've
found as well I don't know if you guys
are the same but when I've shared like
based on what you've told me so far I
don't think we're going to be the best
partner I might try if I know someone in
my contacts I'll intro you to someone
who thinks about fit builds a lot of
trust I think most most prospects are
taken back when you said that they're
like what someone didn't try to sell me
on this cool they're actually saying
they're not the best part and I think
that it builds
they want to buy more which is like a
double-edged sword it's like no no no I
want to do this now like I've just told
you not to do it yeah but I want to do
it okay yeah yeah yeah that's it people
come back as well don't they when you've
been that look it's almost like we can't
have this conversation until you've got
these things in order and then they come
we've started having people come back to
us recently and say I'm ready to have a
conversation now
and you know they've stayed in the
network they've stayed on LinkedIn or
whatever else and they've just stayed
we've stayed visible with the stupid
stuff that we post and they come back
and the you know that they're kind of
ready to be
qualified or disqualified again so it's
not over and no in the moment it's not
not the end
but it's better to eliminate than keep
that maybe and go into bed or I wonder
if that person's gonna send me an email
tomorrow or should I send them a breakup
email yeah that's agreed that's a good
cool so
we started getting into it but earlier
shared a bit of a story
um about kind of how you went through
some problems with the Prospect and they
got quite detailed on their personal
life but I think it'd be quite fun to
essentially because I know you guys are
doing it day in day out with your
company setting meetings for various
businesses now how do we
this is probably especially hard on cold
calls like how do we ask about our
prospects common frustrations and
problems and how do we ask them these
qualifying questions without it sounding
like an interrogation session making it
sound like a good free-flowing
conversation making them actually want
to give us feedback so it flows nicely
and then depending on what our next
objective is whether that is booking an
appointment or perhaps we're on a demo
call because they've come inbound and
perhaps we need to do that initial
qualification and then show them our our
tool through video share or what so what
are some what are some first
considerations
do you want me to go Jack or
I didn't want to jump in
I would
I could give you some sales jargon here
but often what we do in terms of trading
people is find out where do you do that
in your own life anyway so I'll give you
an example sometimes I say
I met you for a beer
and I sat down with you and you said
you're right mate you look a bit down
and I said you know what I'm in so much
debt I'm gonna have to sell my house
what's the first question you'd asked me
the first question what happened
exactly and then I'll probably tell you
and then you probably ask me another
question you probably asked me how I was
feeling find out why how long has this
been going on before
so really it's linking with like how do
human beings actually ask questions
you know like another example might be
I'm thinking about leaving my partner
why again what's happened if you tried
this if you looked at that
the style of question that happens in
human life with your friends and family
lean into that and what often happens in
a call
but we started doing a little bit of
consultancy for people and sales
training and things what you often hear
is a common mistake is the kind of
active listening bit is missing so it
makes the next question feel like you're
just going for a process so you can ask
a question I give you a really heartfelt
answer on the problem Miss part parts of
it because you're thinking about the
next question you go
okay great and you just go into the next
question okay that makes sense great now
if you were meeting your mate in the pub
and he told you like something up with
my wife you wouldn't go okay great you
thought about a new wife okay cool great
that sounds great that makes sense to me
okay cool you wouldn't talk like that
you'd slow it down mate everything all
right God how long has this been going
on before you'd really relate to that
person so I think it's it's it's more
like the authentic asking of questions
and the authentic listening what is the
language of listening
we had we had an example one of our reps
did it the other day that the intro the
kind of The Upfront contract all of that
bang got a CEO really invested in the
coal and he was like you're probably
gonna tell me I've none of those
problems they're like no no we don't
have any of those problems and the next
question was okay so what is the biggest
problem with you're facing and the the
CEO just went uh now you're starting to
sound like a sales rep you know I mean
it all the work in that front end to say
I'm not your typical bullshitty sales
person is is kind of wasted would be
like okay so A beautiful example is
there okay well
it sounds like a Flint's perfect
okay right I've been okay I'm confused
I've been speaking to every other CEO
that works in a fight fintech company
and they've been seeing these problems
what are you doing that's so different
that means you don't have these problems
and then you'll be surprised that if you
dig it and you poke it something will
unearthe and it might be a completely
different problem but if you just go in
okay well tell me Mr Prospect what are
you what are you struggling with so I
can solve it
yeah so somebody comes into the
therapist and they go how the how's the
week been and they go yeah it's been
really good and it's like okay well are
you struggling with anything
oh that's amazing okay and what what bit
of the week of what you've been doing
well yeah I went out on Thursday night I
woke up really ropey on Friday you woke
up really what ropey on Friday yeah and
then add a bit of a there you go okay
we're into a conversation now and and I
think that's the especially the link
where we're bringing it to the sales and
the therapy thing it just can't be like
I've got it can't be a list of I've got
10 questions here that actually has got
to be it's it's it's a maze between
yeah it isn't it weird like you just
gave an example there so
that CEO's position they it sounds like
they'd agree to chat with you and then
you'd mention the problems that you
fixed and they said actually we're all
sound and then
when you take the Super positive angle
like oh it sounds like everything's
working really really well like what's
the secret sauce
um when you start going like positive on
a positive
it's funny how people Rift and then go
negative as in that prosperity
well actually the agency you're working
with right now aren't as good as they
could be on this this and this and it's
like what
do you have any do you have any evidence
of how or any ideas of psychologically
why that happens
yeah there's something called negative
bias it's there from when we were in
tribes that the science behind it is
it's your brain is wired to recognize is
that a tree or is that a lion coming to
eat me and it's safer to think
everything's a lion because it'll just
keep you safe so as soon as it feels
like things are moving in a in a
non-negative way it's kind of against
your wiring
no really it's much safer and there's a
mad bit of research I've double double
and triple checked it but human beings
have something like 80 000 thoughts a
day maybe sixty thousand something like
that
60 to 80 of them are negatively framed
it doesn't mean you're thinking like I'm
gonna crash my car into traffic because
I'm so miserable today but it just means
they're all under like a oh it's a bit
cold outside I should have dressed
differently oh God it's a bit smells in
it you know it's like those sort of tiny
little thoughts throughout the day that
are all negative and if someone comes up
to you and stops you in the day with a
big grin on the face and says I'm here
to solve all your problems naturally
because you're not approaching your day
like that you're going to be like
come on sway you'll be like go away you
know you won't you won't take it as it
doesn't feel right doesn't feel natural
um
I think that's that's a there's
something else that it's it's kind of on
topic but I wanted to add on there
because I think it's like a really
beautiful point when it comes to like
therapy and and cold calling themselves
as well means that were having a
conversation drunk in the back of his
dad mobile while his uh fiance was
driving us home a couple of weeks ago
and we got talking about why is it when
we challenge CEOs and we frame it
negatively and stuff like that how how
do we get them to open up so much
especially when you're talking to
c-suite people a lot of people don't
feel comfortable like talking to them or
calling them they call them the level
they're comfortable with that's another
topic but why are these people opening
up and why why do we get them there and
I think that the realization from Zach
was well actually it's quite a lonely
place at the top me and Zach jump on the
phone probably eight times a day and
we'll have a big catch up on the Friday
we're always talking to each other so
it's like this is pissing me off this is
blah blah blah blah blah we can
vent each other if you're the CEO of a
large software company or whatever yeah
you might have your team around you but
really who do you nag do and I know when
I go home and I know that that when we
go on to our partners I'm bored of work
I don't want to talk about work there I
want to kind of sit Green Street on and
see what we're having for tea is it's
that kind of thing but when you're
speaking to them that people go I don't
know how you're having a conversation
for 10 15 minutes it's therapy for them
and they can open up and there's a
chance to go this is a stranger and if
you frame it in the right way and you do
the right approach you'd be so surprised
at how willing people are to have
conversations because it's their passion
project they built this up from scratch
or they've they've put all their time
and blood and effort into it so actually
yeah of course they're going to talk
about like we talk about sales we could
sit here for four or five hours but it's
that kind of thing of like you poke the
bear being a CEO is a lonely place and
it's that relationship of rejection and
validation that they've got within
themselves as well and you can kind of
work worked out on the call of which one
to steer them towards
yeah it's an interesting take because
like you said I think a lot of
especially when it comes to cold
Outreach you mentioned something just
now that a lot of sales professionals
are only
I guess wanting to call on the level
they're comfortable with and they
perhaps feel that kind of reaching out
to the c-suite whether that's CEO
Chief marketing officer I don't know
Chief technical officer whatever it
might be that they go after is something
that they shouldn't do and for some
reason these people are far beyond them
and they'll never sit and talk to them
when it's like you make quite a valid
point there if you can pick something
that's going to resonate or lead with
something
that's gonna ring a bell in their world
whether it's some kind of problem or
frustration it's uh it's gonna be a way
to start a conversation it's a mindset
thing that most sales reps think that
they're disturbing people when they're
cold calling they're annoying people
they're filling up their inbox oh God
it's me again hi there whereas actually
if you go in with the framework and the
mindset of actually I've got a brilliant
solution that that's going to solve so
many people's problems the only issue is
I don't know who has those problems so
I'm just going to go out to Market I'm
going to speak to a few people I'm just
going to find out and I'm just going to
find those people you don't have it
brilliant onto the next person that
might have it but people think oh I'm
gonna annoy them I can't call them at
9am on a Monday they'll be busy okay I
won't do that then so so you don't do it
do it do you want me to do that I'll
call King Charles have you got his
number
yeah and cognizant
shout out cognizant
um with that says we've talked a bit
about how to make it a nice kind of
free-flowing conversation that someone
you might have with that at the pub one
of your friends
how do we
going back to the therapy kind of
analogy how do we
kind of get to the root cause
as we said at the start some problems
you can just ignore whereas some are a
massive headache a massive frustration
they're keeping you up at night they're
causing you your business money time
you're losing sleep maybe you're losing
staff maybe something your personal life
how do we take it from just a surface
level problem to finding out if it's
something super important it's actually
going to be worth this Prospect this
potential client sitting down with us on
a demo a consultation or even buying our
stuff
there is a bit of a framework to follow
but half of the battle is getting people
to open up and often we're hearing about
pattern interrupts in terms of
patterning so the most common thing that
you hear about is
how we start a call but a pattern into
it might be just being different in a
conversation like hitting a different
pattern so if I told
if I said I'm an alcoholic which I'm not
give me five years though you know the
way things are going
um but I'm not up but the most common
thing if someone found out you know oh
this person's an alcoholic in my life
he's trying to kind of talk them out of
being an alcoholic
really probably the question they're not
used to being asked is what you like
about it
right and what they probably like about
it is the safety in it I don't get
suffer with rejection as much so when
people talk to you about a business
problem in the same way you know we're
all still people we still feel business
problems in the same way that we feel
like why we need to drink a bit too much
if they've got a business Problem by
going down a path over what do you like
about it the way things are at the
minute well we've done it for a long
time my guys are allergic to change
we've got a supplier in place okay so
you get a bit of a framework for okay
so why are we talking
well because you know I I need to solve
these bits okay but your current
supplier couldn't solve those
well I don't know if they could oh
you've not asked them
well no I've not asked them okay and if
but if you did ask them what do you
think they'd say but I don't know do you
want to try that first and it's like
going a little bit deeper into the root
causes but often leaning into
what do you like about the way you are
right now what you like about the
situation that you're in will open up
all the reasons why someone's probably
not going to do something
now the flips out of that is you say
what do you like about the situation
you're in at the minute you must like
something they say I don't like anything
about it I hate it all right okay now
we're in now we're talking but nine
times out of ten people like the way
things are in some way and we're just
too scared to ask them why
so there's
a lot more reasons not to buy from you
than there are
putting all those on the table first and
gradually taking them away will leave
you with what the root causes are and
what the motivation is to do anything
and it's just and it's always and it's
always going back and being like well
couldn't your
you know oh I know that you guys can
you've got a platform that works offline
does your new supplier not have a
platform that works offline no is it in
their roadmap I don't know do you want
to ask them that first because if that's
two months away you'd probably stay with
them till then wouldn't you yeah
probably and it's just getting a bit
deeper into it you know
I think it also builds that trust piece
as well I mean why don't you go and do
this this and this right okay we've done
that now yeah it's not going to go ahead
we're back
this thing don't it doesn't have to be
like you said no it's not no forever
it's just a no now and it's all part of
the the way we the way we feel about
people and all those things that
person's listen to me they've mirrored
me I feel kind of comfortable with them
they've given me advice blah blah blah
all those things brilliant
and I guess this is even more important
if you are providing quite complex
Solutions if you're perhaps selling
software that's to the Enterprise maybe
it costs hundreds of thousands of
dollars a year or more
um like if you're just getting surface
level answers and people are saying um I
don't know my current CRM doesn't work
very well I need it to grab my Gmail
contacts and Export them within a minute
and it takes like two hours
um but it turns out there's actually an
update coming from that current provider
next month to fix that it's like
is that really something that you want
to take all the time to move all your
Tech over to us like take the pain of a
month's transfer and all this cash and
stuff it's like is it really worth it
now
exactly exactly good examples
um how do you tend to
I guess carry the conversation from
going from these problems let's say
we've got to the root issues
um to actually then taking some form of
Next Step whether that is another
appointment whether that is taking some
kind of payment whether it's booking a
demo or whatever you want to do next how
do you
I guess move things forward
it's probably like two very simple
answers when it comes to booking
meetings for me personally I know Zach
will agree the best meetings you get to
a point where you're talking talking
they're like right okay what should we
do do we do we like and they suggest it
you've been talking for so long and
you've listened okay and right okay what
what do you do like they know it's a
sales call they know what they get into
and what do we do we jump on a demo do
you send me an email well what do you
usually do or a very simple one is okay
and what would you like to happen next
if you do all the work there it
shouldn't feel like a okay can I get 15
minutes in your diary it should just
feel like an easy one so or I don't know
enough about you but I guess I know that
we have helped a lot of people that have
these problems and they are struggling
with this so is there any reason why you
wouldn't want to sit down and explore
this for 10 15 20 whatever
well no there's no reason okay have you
got your diary there bang it's it's that
kind of thing it should it's a natural
progression this closing business
everyone talks about ABC always be
closing actually you should just do the
the beginning bit right and if you get
all of that right then actually the
close will just happen itself anything
to add on that Circ
there's certain personalities that I
think are tougher
so certain especially I found the bigger
companies you go the more c-suite you go
get a lot of these like self-made
millionaires or Daddy's Money
Millionaires who are risk-averse or
don't think they have a risk or couldn't
possibly admit to a stranger on the
phone so sometimes you've got to get
them to feel it a bit more in the last
bit of the conversation so you've got to
talk to them in a way that maybe a CEO a
big company isn't spoken to a lot so
they've started to tell you the problem
you physically can't move anywhere on a
call in our framework without there
being a problem so let's take it we've
got a problem they've kind of admitted
to a bit we're getting them to feel it a
bit the last few questions I'll probably
take them through are how long have you
felt like this for
to which they'll say let's say they say
five years and I'll probably
purposefully
say summarize it back to them wrong so
I'd probably say oh five months no no
five years oh wow five years right okay
um wow okay well based on everything you
set up I've got a bit of tough question
to ask
go on are you sure it's tough It's
probably gonna hurt your feelings
come on
why don't you just give up
and they start saying oh no I couldn't
give up I'm so invested in the business
at the minute we're moving on we're
doing this we're doing that and then all
of a sudden all that emotion pours out
and then from that it's a case of well I
don't know if I can help you but if I
could what would you tell me well I
probably want to see what you can do
next of course you got your diary there
um
yeah that's a nice way to get them to
open up
and I'm a real pain
because stuff chaps well I think we've
gone through a pretty good framework
really in terms of kind of linking sales
to therapy
looking for problems diving deeper not
taking the surface level answers
and moving that into kind of emotion an
emotional level and then kind of setting
setting next step is is there anything
else that we should consider before we
look to wrap this session up
um I think
the weird one that we see the most when
it doesn't work out with people that we
hire is when they sound like we all
sound here and then when they get on a
call they sound totally different
so really I think human beings have got
this kind of great authenticity detector
so if you sound quite unnatural you
might sound great you might be fluid in
what you're saying but you might have a
weird
tone of voice I think like really be
cognizant especially if you're just
starting of what do I actually sound
like and is that how I sound normally
it's it's really sales it's all about
just leaning into kind of what you would
do naturally how you would treat things
naturally with a little bit of nuance to
it a little bit more challenging than
you probably would be with your friend
but definitely leaning on how you
actually sound and if you can crack that
bit that's probably the hardest bit of
all to teach you can just sound like you
sound and be authentic that's half the
battle
yeah anything from you Joe no that was
beautiful beautifully put you hit me
right in the fields exactly you got me
emotional when can I book a meeting
and on that note thank you very much
Jack Zach we have a meeting crew it's uh
it's been a pleasure
um thank you appreciate it no worries
appreciate you walking us through kind
of the A to Z of linking sales and
therapy so with that please do share
more about how everyone tuning in can
connect with you your site and anything
you'd like to direct our audience to
well yeah well it's a good point isn't
it we've just had a site built by your
wonderful team Sam so um that will
hopefully be going live over the next
few days so we'll be a bit more of a
robust
qualification process should you want to
take it and pay our
extortionate rates
um and there's a lot of information on
there should you need it but um yeah big
thanks to you and your team Sam for
putting that together and obviously if
you wanted to follow our
Madness and the thoughts that we have on
a day-to-day basis me and Jack are quite
prolific on LinkedIn Jack probably more
so you probably post like three times a
day don't you check at the minute so
there's a there's a I think there was a
Harvard study that's 60 to 80 percent of
our thoughts on a daily on a daily basis
are absolute nonsense
yeah
um yeah checks out on LinkedIn we we try
and share stuff that might be helpful or
it might just give you a belly laugh who
knows
awesome cheers guys appreciate you
coming on we'll put all those links over
in the show notes at businessgrowth dot
marketing and make sure you check out we
have a meeting.com or check these guys
out on LinkedIn putting great stuff when
it comes to sales development booking
meetings mindset and all that good stuff
cheers Jensen with that if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating or review
on your podcast Channel goes a long way
or subscribe on YouTube and we'll catch
you on the next one for more actionable
no BS B2B marketing tips to drive your
Revenue catch you on the next one